Update README for UI Tests (#21594)
wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS: WordPress/UITests/README.md

When adding a new UI test, consider:

* Whether to test a user flow (to accomplish a task or goal) or a specific feature (e.g. boundary testing).
* What screens are being tested (defined as screen objects in [.../Screens](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITestsFoundation/Screens)).
* Whether there are repeated flows across tests (defined in [.../Flows](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITests/Flows)).
* What network requests are made during the test (defined in [.../API-Mocks](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/API-Mocks)).

> Tests classes are grouped together in [.../Tests](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITests/Tests)

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with the `.../` syntax, is that a standard way to say "a older defined somewhere"?

Author: oh that was to say that it's in that folder, would just `/Tests` be clearer?

Reviewer 2: I'd vote for just using the folder name, w/o `...` or `/`, to avoid making it look like a relative reference.

> When you add a new test, you may need to add new screens, methods, and flows. We use page objects and method chaining for clarity in our tests. Wherever possible, use an existing `accessibilityIdentifier` (or add one to the app) instead of a string to select a UI element on the screen. This ensures tests can be run regardless of the device language.j

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you add a new test, you may need to add new screens, methods, and flows. We use page objects and method chaining for clarity in our tests. Wherever possible, use an existing `accessibilityIdentifier` (or add one to the app) instead of a string to select a UI element on the screen. This ensures tests can be run regardless of the device language.
```

* For assert methods, use this format `verifyWhatToVerify` e.g. `verifyPostExists()`
* Note that there’s a common global method `assertScreenIsLoaded()` that can be used to assert all screens

## Passing hard-coded `Strings` | `Numbers` in tests

There are some cases where we would need to pass hard-coded values in the test, this should happen on the Test level and not on the screen level (unless there’s a really good reason). 

This is so methods are not limited to being used with a fixed value and remain flexible. In the case where those values change we would also be able to update only the test file(s) without making changes elsewhere.

## Adding or updating network mocks

When you add a test (or when the app changes), the request definitions for WireMock need to be updated in `API-Mocks/`. You can read WireMock’s documentation [here](http://wiremock.org/docs/).

If you are unsure what network requests need to be mocked for a test, an easy way to find out is to run the app through [Proxyman](https://proxyman.io/) or [Charles Proxy](https://www.charlesproxy.com/) and observe the required requests.

> Currently, the project does not apply strict mock matching criteria, this means that if there are unmatched requests that are not being used by the test itself, the test should still work although errors like this can be seen in the logs:

Reviewer 2: 1. From seeing the `... in the logs:` it looks like you've intended to provide an error sample.
2. Maybe it's just me, but this paragraph might indirectly encourage to not keep the "not directly related" mocks in shape 🤔 Should it really be there, and does it make the overall approach better or cleaner?

Author: > From seeing the ... in the logs: it looks like you've intended to provide an error sample.

oh yes, you're right, the screenshot didn't get copied when i copied the rest of the doc 😓 i'll add that in. 

> this paragraph might indirectly encourage to not keep the "not directly related" mocks in shape

the reason i added that is that there are existing mock calls that are still not matched (not many _but_ there are) that will appear in the logs, so that would serve as a statement as to why it's happening and reduces the potential of having contributors ask about it. considering the endpoints are not used by the test, i would say that the approach doesn't impact the test itself but does clutter the console logs with "Request was not matched" logs. 

i personally think we should keep this explanatory statement. i also added a recommendation so it doesn't look like we're encouraging keeping the mock requests unmatched in https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/pull/21594/commits/1c3cbadd9694413e88a9083e716ac361eb4e201f can you take another look and see if it reads better now?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's better now, thank you, Jos 🙇 (I'll provide my further comments all at once as a part of review shortly, sorry for cluttering the PR with separate standalone ones)

When adding a new UI test, consider:

* Whether to test a user flow (to accomplish a task or goal) or a specific feature (e.g. boundary testing).
* What screens are being tested (defined as screen objects in [Screens](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITestsFoundation/Screens)).

> * Whether there are repeated flows across tests (defined in [Flows](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITests/Flows)).

Reviewer 2: Just for the sake or pronounciation:

```suggestion
* Are there repeated flows across tests (defined in [Flows](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITests/Flows)).
```

* What network requests are made during the test (defined in [API-Mocks](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/API-Mocks)).

Tests classes are grouped together in [Tests](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/WordPress/UITests/Tests)

When you add a new test, you may need to add new screens, methods, and flows. We use page objects and method chaining for clarity in our tests. Wherever possible, use an existing `accessibilityIdentifier` (or add one to the app) instead of a string to select a UI element on the screen. This ensures tests can be run regardless of the device language.

## Naming convention

* When creating new tests, use this format for the name to make it easier to see what the test is doing: `testActionFeature` e.g. `testCreateScheduledPost()`

> * When creating new methods, use this format: `actionObject` e.g. `closePostSettings()`

Reviewer 2: Subjective: for 1-3, to me, it looks like separating template from example makes it easier to understand:

```suggestion
* When creating new methods, use the `actionObject` format, e.g. `closePostSettings()`
```

* For assert methods, use this format `verifyWhatToVerify` e.g. `verifyPostExists()`
* Note that there’s a common global method `assertScreenIsLoaded()` that can be used to assert all screens

## Passing hard-coded `Strings` | `Numbers` in tests

> There are some cases where we would need to pass hard-coded values in the test, this should happen on the Test level and not on the screen level (unless there’s a really good reason). 

Reviewer 2: 1. Nitpick: `Test` is capitalized and `screen` is not.
2. Does the `(unless there’s a really good reason).` serves a good purpose?

```suggestion
There are some cases where we would need to pass hard-coded values in the test, this should happen on the Test level and not on the Screen level. 
```

Author: > Does the (unless there’s a really good reason). serves a good purpose?

yeah we can drop this to not encourage it, even if it needs to happen it will be explained in the PR.

> This is so methods are not limited to being used with a fixed value and remain flexible. In the case where those values change we would also be able to update only the test file(s) without making changes elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: 1. Possibly there should be `that`
2. Providing more context (`test method` vs `method`) makes it easier to grasp that it's about methods in Screen files, IMO.

```suggestion
This is so that test methods are not limited to being used with a fixed value and remain flexible. In the case where those values change we would also be able to update only the test file(s) without making changes elsewhere.
```

## Adding or updating network mocks

When you add a test (or when the app changes), the request definitions for WireMock need to be updated in `API-Mocks/`. You can read WireMock’s documentation [here](http://wiremock.org/docs/).

> If you are unsure what network requests need to be mocked for a test, an easy way to find out is to run the app through [Proxyman](https://proxyman.io/) or [Charles Proxy](https://www.charlesproxy.com/) and observe the required requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are unsure what network requests need to be mocked for a test, a way to find this out is to run the app through [Proxyman](https://proxyman.io/) or [Charles Proxy](https://www.charlesproxy.com/) and observe the required requests.
```

(No, just joking 🙂)

Author: that is a pretty valid suggestion though 😆

Currently, the project does not apply strict mock matching criteria, this means that if there are unmatched requests that are not being used by the test itself. The test should still work although errors like this can be seen in the logs:

<img width="1000" alt="unmatched request" src="https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/assets/17252150/2e6595b1-6fdd-4255-9721-90c278518d75">

When adding a new test however, it is recommended that all requests are matched so that the logs are not further cluttered with `Request was not matched` like in the above screenshot.

## Using stateful behavior for mocks
1. To add scenarios that use stateful behavior, do the following:

> Add the new scenario in [scenarios.json](https://github.com//wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/__files/__admin/scenarios.json)

Reviewer 2: Possibly you meant starting the list in the following way, and using the first sentence as an introduction?

```suggestion
To add scenarios that use stateful behavior, do the following:
1. Add the new scenario in [scenarios.json](https://github.com//wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/tree/trunk/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/__files/__admin/scenarios.json)
```

P.S. Since the header text is very similar to the first sentence, WDYT of removing the first sentence?

Author: good point, yeah looks like ok to remove without losing context.

2. Fetch and reset scenario during `SetUp()` in the test class containing the test, e.g. seen on [Notification Test](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5730cee6568fe43fb3a5108e396e12244c62b3e5/WordPress/UITests/Tests/NotificationTests.swift#L18-L23)
3. Update JSON mappings to contain the following 3 new attributes, `scenarioName`, `requiredScenarioState` and `newScenarioState`, and the response matching the state of the scenario, e.g. seen on [Notification Test](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5730cee6568fe43fb3a5108e396e12244c62b3e5/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/mappings/wpcom/notifications/notifications_comment_reply_before.json#L2-L4)

## Tips and tricks on using mocks

> * When getting the same request with the same header but a different request body to return different responses, experiment with using [different matchers](https://docs.wiremock.io/request-matching/matcher-types/). From some experimenting, would recommend using `matchesJsonPath` which is used to differentiate [Create Page](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/mappings/wpcom/pages/sites_106707880_pages_new.json#L18) and [Create Post](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/mappings/wpcom/posts/posts_new.json#L18)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When getting the same request with the same header but a different request body to return different responses, experiment with using [different matchers](https://docs.wiremock.io/request-matching/matcher-types/). From some experimenting, I would recommend using `matchesJsonPath` which is used to differentiate [Create Page](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/mappings/wpcom/pages/sites_106707880_pages_new.json#L18) and [Create Post](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/WordPressMocks/src/main/assets/mocks/mappings/wpcom/posts/posts_new.json#L18).
```

> * Use `verbose` to debug errors, this can be updated adding the verbose parameter when [starting the WireMock server](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/scripts/start.sh#L20-L23) (don’t forget the slash to not break the command)

Reviewer 2: Possibly you meant:

```suggestion
* Use `verbose` to debug errors, this can be updated by adding the `verbose` parameter when [starting the WireMock server](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/WordPress-iOS/blob/5a00e849d8877e8ae2a6ec6bc9c762e68e6e0620/API-Mocks/scripts/start.sh#L20-L23) (don’t forget the slash to not break the command).
```
